---
category: idei305
order: 104
title: Objectives/Activities/Budget
layout: idei305
---
#Project objectives and activities

The main scientific objective of the proposed project is to contribute to the understanding of the way in which solid-liquid interface interactions determine the translation and rotation of molecules confined inside partially saturated porous media. Because porous structures are heterogeneous by nature and may contain magnetic impurities a secondary objective is to evaluate the effects of the internal fields, generated by susceptibility differences, on NMR diffusion and relaxation measurements. In order to fulfill these objectives will be performed systematic diffusion and nuclear relaxation measurements to acquire information on the restriction imposed by the surface on molecular mobility (translational and rotational). The research activities will include: sample preparation and characterization, NMR diffusion and relaxation measurements, random walk computer simulations and testing of theoretical models regarding fluid distribution and transport to describe the observed phenomena.

**The specific objectives and the main activities associated are:**


**Year 2011 (Budget: 88000 lei)**

**O1. Preparation and characterisation of porous samples with controlled amount of magnetic impurities**

* A1. Preparation of porous samples with different amounts of magnetic impurities;
* A2. Characterisation of the produced samples with respect to their magnetic susceptibility;
* A3. Characterisation of the produced samples with respect to porosity and pore size distribution.

**Year 2012 (Budget: 799500 lei)**

**O2. The influence of the internal gradients on diffusion and relaxation measurements**

* A1. Extracting of the internal gradients of the produced samples;
* A2. Evaluating the influence of internal gradients on diffusion measurements;
* A3. Evaluating the influence of internal gradients on relaxation measurements;
* A4. Evaluating the influence of internal gradients on the thickness of the surface layer used in the interpretation of relaxation data;
* A5. Testing the efficiency and the limits of compensating gradient techniques for diffusion measurements;
* A6.  Acquisition and testing of a Fast Field Cycling NMR instrument

**Year 2013 (Budget: 140583 lei)**

**O3. Study of the molecule-surface interaction effects on macroscopic dynamics (translational diffusion) and location of polar and non-polar molecules under confinement**

* A1. Study the molecule-surface interaction effects on translational dynamics of molecules confined inside porous media without magnetic impurities;
* A2. Study the molecule-surface interaction effects on translational dynamics of molecules confined inside porous media with controlled amount of magnetic impurities;
* A3. Applications of the previous studies to the cement based materials;

**Year 2014 (Budget: 150563 lei)**

**O4. Study of the molecule-surface interaction effects on rotational dynamics of molecules confined inside porous media without magnetic impurities**

* A1. Measurement of the relaxation rate of polar and nonpolar molecules confined inside porous VitraPor as a function of temperature and frequency and elaboration of a theoretical model describing the results;
* A2. Investigating the possibility of using the dipolar correlations effects on stimulating echo attenuation as a tool in extracting the correlation times at the interface of porous media;
* A3. Determining the relative role of intra and inter-molecular interactions in the relaxation process by using deuterated molecules.

**Year 2015 (Budget: 321354 lei)**

**O5. Study of the molecule-surface interaction effects on rotational dynamics of molecules confined inside porous media with magnetic impurities**

* A1. Measurement of the relaxation rate of polar and nonpolar molecules confined inside porous ceramics as a function of temperature and frequency and elaboration of a theoretical model describing the results;
* A2. Investigation of the relaxation dynamics in the vicinity of phase transition and the identification of the liquid and solid component;

**O6. Application of the previous knowledge to the investigation  of rotational dynamics of water molecules confined inside cement paste**

* A1. Measurement of the relaxation rate in cement paste as a function of temperature and frequency of the external magnetic field at different hydration times;
* A2. Comparison of the results obtained on cement paste with those on porous ceramics with similar amount of magnetic impurities and pore dimensions.
