---
layout: default
title: Publications
order: 5
---

A. Books/Monographic papers
-------

 * I. Ardelean, [Rezonanta Magnetica Nucleara pentru ingineri](/assets/rmn_pentru_ingineri.zip), Editura U.T. Press, Cluj-Napoca, 2013, ISBN: 978-973-662-905-1 

 * I. Ardelean, “Introductory quantum mechanics”(in Romanian), Editura U.T.Press, Cluj-Napoca, 2002, ISBN 973-8335-24-8(199 p)

 * I. Ardelean, [“Physics for engineers”](/assets/fizica_pt_ingineri.zip) (in Romanian), Editura U.T.Press, Cluj-Napoca, 2005 (222 p)

 * I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich ”Principles and unconventional aspects of NMR diffusometry”, in “Annual Reports on NMR Spectroscopy”, vol. 49,pag.43 (Ed. G.A.Webb), Academic Press, 2003

B. Papers in ISI indexed journals
----------

1. D.E.Demco, and I. Ardelean, Spatial Localised Single Quantum Heteronuclear Polarisation Transfer, Acta Physica Polonica A86, (3), 407-425(1994).
2. D. E. Demco, S. Hafner and I. Ardelean, R. Kimmich, Localised heteronuclear cross-polarisation in solids by double quantum transitions, Appl. Magn. Reson. 9, 491- 507(1995).
3. D.E.Demco, and I. Ardelean, Spatially Localised Double Quantum Heteronuclear Coherence Transfer in Solids-Indirect Detection Procedure, Acta Physica Polonica A89, 699- 714(1996).
4. I. Ardelean, S.Stapf, D.E.Demco and R. Kimmich, The nonlinear stimulated echo, J. Magn. Reson.124, 506-508 (1997).
5. I. Ardelean, R.Kimmich, S.Stapf and D.E.Demco, Multiple nonlinear stimulated echoes, J. Magn. Reson. 127, 217-224 (1997).
6. I. Ardelean, R.Kimmich, S.Stapf and D.E.Demco, The nonlinear stimulated echo in the presence of inequivalent spins, J. Magn. Reson.132, 138-143 (1998).
7. R. Kimmich and I. Ardelean, Intermolecular multiple-quantum coherence transfer echoes and multiple echoes in nuclear magnetic resonance, J. Chem. Phys. 110, 3708-3713 (1999).
8. R. Kimmich, I. Ardelean, Y.Ya Lin, S. Ahn and W.S. Warren, Multiple spin echo generation by gradients of the radio frequency amplitude: Two-dimensional nutation spectroscopy and multiple rotary echoes, J. Chem. Phys. 111, 6501-6509 (1999).
9. I. Ardelean, A. Scharfenecker and R. Kimmich, Two-pulse nutation echoes generated by gradients of the radio frequency amplitude and of the main magnetic field, J. Magn. Reson. 144, 45-52 (2000).
10. I. Ardelean, R. Kimmich and A.Klemm, The nutation spin echo and its use for localized NMR, J. Magn. Reson, 146, 43-48 (2000).
11. I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich, Diffusion measurements using the nonlinear stimulated echo, J. Magn. Reson. 143, 101-105 (2000).
12. I.Ardelean and R. Kimmich, Diffusion measurements with the pulsed gradient nonlinear spin echo method”, J. Chem. Phys. 112, 5275-5280(2000).
13. I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich, The demagnetizing field effects on Hahn echo, Chem. Phys. Letters 320, 81-86 (2000).
14. A. Scharfenecker , I. Ardelean and R, Kimmich, Diffusion measurements with the aid of nutation spin echoes appearing after two inhomogeneous radio-frequency pulses in inhomogeneous magnetic fields, J. Magn. Reson.148, 363-366 (2001).
15. I. Ardelean, E. Kossel and R. Kimmich, Attenuation of homo- and heteronuclear multiple spin echoes by diffusion, J.Chem.Phys.114, 8520-8530 (2001).
16. E. Kossel, R. Kimmich and I. Ardelean, The Influence of J-coupling on heteronuclear nonlinear (or multiple) spin echoes , Chem. Phys. Letters 347, 157-162 (2001).
17. I. Ardelean, C. Mattea, G. Fahhrer, S.Woronajano, and R. Kimmich, NMR studies of vapor phase contribution to diffusion in nanoporous glasses partially filled with water and cyclohexane, J.Chem. Phys. 119, 10358-10362(2003)
18. I. Ardelean, R. Kimmich, The diversity of B-0 and B-1 gradient NMR diffusometry techniques, Israel Journal of Chemistry 43, 9-24 (2003).
19. I. Ardelean, B.Buhai, and R. Kimmich, The Grating Echo, Appl. Magn.Reson. 26, 307-315 (2004).
20. I. Ardelean, G.Farrher, C.Mattea and R.Kimmich, Nuclear magnetic resonance study of the vapour phase contribution to diffusion in silica glasses with micrometer pores partially filled with liquid cyclohexane and water, J. Chem. Phys.120, 9809-9816 (2004).
21. C.Mattea, R.Kimmich, I.Ardelean, S.Wonorahardjo, and G.Farrher, „Molecular exchange dynamics in partially filled microscale and nanoscale pores of silica glasses studied by FC NMR relaxometry” J.Chem Phys. 121, 10648-10656 (2004).
22. B.Bogdan, A.Hakimov, I.Ardelean, and R.Kimmich, “NMR acceleration mapping in percolation model objects”, J. Magn. Reson. 168, 175-185(2004).
23. I. Ardelean, G. Farrher, C. Mattea, and R. Kimmich, NMR study of the vapor phase contribution to diffusion in partially filled silica glasses with nanometer and micrometer pores, Magn. Reson. Imag. 23, 285-289 (2005).
24. G. Farrher, I. Ardelean, R. Kimmich, Probing four orders of magnitude of diffusion times in porous silica glasses with unconventional NMR techniques”, J. Magn. Reson. 188, 215-220 (2006).
25. G. Farrher, I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich, The heterogeneous distribution of the liquid phase in partially filled porous glasses and its effect on self-diffusion, Magn. Reson. Imag. 25, 453-456 (2007)
26. I. Ardelean, G. Farrher and R. Kimmich, Effective diffusion in partially filled nanoscopic and microscopic pores, Journal of Optoelectronics and Advanced Materials, 9, 655-660 (2007).
27. M. Bogdan, A. Nan, L. Barbu-Tudoran ,C.V.I. Pop, I. Ardelean, NMR investigation of polyethyl-2-cyanoacrylate (PECA), nanocapsules, Applied Magn. Reson. 34, 111-119 (2008).
28. M. Bogdan, A. Parnau, C. Badea, and I. Ardelean, Molecular dynamics in permeable nanocapsules, Appl. Magn. Reson. 34, 63 – 69 (2008).
29. G. Farrher, I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich, Time-Dependent Molecular Diffusion in Partially Filled Porous Glasses with Heterogeneous Structure, Appl. Magn. Reson. 34, 85-99(2008).
30. G. Farrher, I. Ardelean, R. Kimmich, Time dependent diffusion in partially filled porous glasses, Journal of Optoelectronics and Advanced Materials, 10, 2192-2198 (2008).
31. C. Badea, R.B. Mos, L. Ciontea, I. Ardelean, Low-Field Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Relaxometry as a Tool in Monitoring the Aging of Coating Solutions (Case Study: Barium Propionate Precursor Coating Solution), Appl. Magn. Reson. 39, 365-372 (2010).
32. R. Nechifor, M. Bogdan and I. Ardelean, The Size Distribution of Core Shell Polymeric Capsules as Revealed by Low-Field NMR Diffusometry, Appl. Magn.  Reson.40, 205-211 (2011).
33. M. Simina, R. Nechifor and I. Ardelean, Saturation-dependent nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation of fluids confined inside porous media with micrometer-sized pores, Magn. Reson. Chem. 49, 314 – 319 (2011).
34. R. Nechifor, C. Mattea, S. Stapf, M. Bogdan, I. Ardelean, “NMR relaxation dispersion of miglyol molecules confined inside polymeric micro-capsules”, Magn. Reson. Chem. 49, 730-739 (2011).
35. M. Simina, L. Molnar, D. Manea and I. Ardelean, Monitoring the Air Influence on Cement–Lime Mortar Hydration Using Low-Field Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Relaxometry, Appl. Magn. Reson. 43, 443-450 (2012).
36. S. Muncaci and I. Ardelean, The Influence of the Magnetic Impurity Content on the Pore Size Distribution Determination via the DDIF Technique, Appl. Magn. Reson. 44, 365-373 (2013).
37. S. Muncaci, C. Mattea, S. Stapf, I. Ardelean, Frequency‐dependent NMR relaxation of liquids confined inside porous media containing an increased amount of magnetic impurities, Magn. Reson. Chem. 51, 123-128 (2013).
38. S. Muncaci and I. Ardelean, Probing the Pore Size of Porous Ceramics with Controlled Amount of Magnetic Impurities via Diffusion Effects on the CPMG Technique, Appl. Magn. Reson. 44, 837-848 (2013).
39. A. Pop, C. Badea and I. Ardelean, The Effects of Different Superplasticizers and Water-to-Cement Ratios on the Hydration of Gray Cement Using T2-NMR, Appl. Magn. Reson. 44, 1223-1234 (2013).

**C. Papers in referred journals**
---

1. I. Ardelean, and D.E.Demco, Double Quantum Cross-Polarization with Restricted Molecular Motion, Rom. Journ. Phys. 37, (8), 783-792 (1992).
2. I. Ardelean, and D.E. Demco, Dynamic Theory of Cross-Polarization under Fast Magic Angle Sample Spinning, Rom. Journ. Phys. 38, (7), 711-716 (1993).
3. D. E. Demco, and I. Ardelean, Heteronuclear Coherence Transfer by Adiabatic Level-Crossing in the Rotating Frame", Rom. Journ. Phys. 39, (5-6), 449-464 (1994).
4. D.E.Demco, and I. Ardelean, Spatial Localization in the Process of Cyclic Adiabatic Heteronuclear J-Coherence Transfer, Rom. Journ. Phys. 39, (9-10), 685-694 (1994).
5. D.E. Demco, and I. Ardelean, Spatially Localised Single Quantum Heteronuclear Polarization Transfer in Solids in the Presence of Radiofrequency Field Gradients", Rom. Journ. Phys. 40, (8-9), 859-876 (1995).
6. D.E.Demco, and I. Ardelean, The Influence of Molecular Motion on the NMR Cross-Polarization in Solids, Rom. Journ. Phys. 41, (9-10), 462-473 (1996).
7. D.E.Demco, and I. Ardelean, Homonuclear NMR Dipolar Decoupling and Recoupling in Rotating Solids", Rom.Journ. Phys. 41, (9-10), 703-725 (1996).
8. I. Ardelean, G. Farrher, C. Mattea, R. Kimmich, Fluid diffusion in partially filled nanoscopic and microscopic porous materials, Modern Magnetic Reson., 1451-1457 (2006).
9. G. Farrher, I. Ardelean and R. Kimmich, Vapour contribution to the time dependence of the eff. diffusion coeff. in partially filled porous glasses, Diffusion Fundamentals 5, 9.1-9.9 (2007).
10. R. Nechifor, C. Badea and I. Ardelean, Nuclear magnetic resonance studies of liquids morphology inside partially saturated porous media, Journal of Physics: Conference Series 182, 012012 (2009).

**D. The most important conference presentations in the last 10 Years**
---

 1. I. Ardelean, C. Mattea, G. Fahhrer, R. Kimmich, Molecular diffusion in partially filled porous media: NMR investigations, The AMPERE XI NMR SCHOOL, Zakopane (Poland) June 1-6, 2003 (oral presentation)
 2. I. Ardelean, C. Mattea, G. Farrher, R. Kimmich; “NMR studiess of Diffusion in Partially Filled Porous Media”, AMPERE XI NMR SCHOOL, June 6-11, 2004, Zakopane, Poland (invited speaker).
 3. I.Ardelean, G.Farrher, C.Mattea, and R.Kimmich; “NMR study of the vapour phase contribution to diffusion in partially filed silica glasses with nanometer and micrometer pores”, 7th International Conference on Magnetic Resonance in Porous Media, July 4-8, 2004. Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France (oral presentation).
 4. I. Ardelean, G. Farrher, C. Mattea, and R. Kimmich, “NMR investigation of the vapour contribution to diffusion in porous media partially filled with liquids”, Euromar/EENC2005, Conference, July 3-8, 2005, Veldhoven, The Netherlands (invited speaker)
 5. I. Ardelean, Time dependent effective diffusion in partially filled mezoscopic pores from hundred microseconds to hundred miliseconds, 8 th Bologna Conference on NMR in Porous Media, 2006, Bologna (invited speaker)
 6. I. Ardelean, G. Farrher, R. Kimmich, Molecular dynamics under confinement in partially filled nano- and micro- structured samples: NMR investigations, XXII Conference on Radio and Microwave Spectroscopy RAMIS 2007, April 22- 25, Bedlewo-Poznan, Poland (invited speaker).
 7. I. Ardelean, M. Bogdan, C. Badea, A. Parnau, NMR diffusion and relaxation studies of molecules confined inside core-shell polymeric capsules, 9th Bologna Conference on Magnetic Resonance in Porous Media, 13-17 Iulie, 2008 Boston, USA (poster).
 8. I. Ardelean, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance investigations on partially saturated porous media, 11th Central and Eastern European Bruker Users Meeting, October 4-6, 2009, Cluj-Napoca (invited speaker).
 9. I. Ardelean M. Simina, S. Muncaci, Relaxation of polar and nonpolar molecules confined inside partially saturated porous media with ferromagnetic impurities, 10th Bologna Conference on Magnetic Resonance in Porous Media, 12-16 Sept. 2010, Leipzig, Germania (poster).
 10. I. Ardelean, S. Muncaci, C. Mattea, S. Stapf, NMR relaxation of fluids confined inside porous media with magnetic impurities, 8th Conference on FFC NMR Relaxometry, 23-25 May 2013, Turin, Italy (invited speaker).
